welcome back to recap in minutes in today's video
we will be going through a 1995 american fictional
film called outbreak this movie focuses
on a fictional virus carried by a host
monkey from africa and start to infect the whole
population spoilers ahead watch out and take care
the story begins in 1967 during the
kinshasa war and republic of congo
formerly known as Zaire in a mercenary camp we
see the arrival of two men in protective mask
they came in response to a viral disease that
creeped into the camp leaving numerous soldiers
sick and dead in less than 24 hours they
collect blood samples from an infected soldier
and return back to the helicopter where
one of the men orders the other named billy
to get a plane to the camp very soon within a
short period of time a plane is seen approaching
the camp the soldiers think it's for supplies
but air drops a thing which blast the whole camp
leaving the camp in ashes the two men on mass did
that so that the virus may be stopped from spread
now the movie takes us further to 28 years after
the incident showing colonel daniel a virologist
doctor working for the u.s army bathing his dogs
he receives a call which tells the situation of
a level four viral disease outbreak in zaire with
a high mortality in the next scene daniel goes to
his recently divorced wife robby to leave their
dogs with her as he prepare to leave for zaire
before he leaves they have a small marital quarrel
the next day he is prepared to go to zaire he
meets billy now a brigadier general and daniel's
superior officer to get more insight information
about the situation in Zaire on the plane his
crew major casey and a new recruit major salt
colonel daniel interrogates salt to know whether
he has been on the field but finds out this will
be his first time they arrive in Zaire a village
where this virus broke out they discovers corpses
of the villagers lying on the floor they are
shocked because the situation has gone worse
they enters into a building where they see dying
mothers fathers and children at the last stage
of the disease seeing this major salt freaks
out he cannot hold it and takes off his helmet
due to risk to the exposure to the virus colonel
daniel asked to isolate him but a random man
appears and tells them the virus do not spread
through the air he happens to be a doctor he tells
daniel the whole village is dead the virus kills
in two or three days and the mortality is one
hundred percent it is revealed about the patient
zero a man who worked with a white man to build a
road into kinshasa returns to the village sick and
drinks from this well from there it spread through
the entire village after gathering information
they returned to the united states daniel speaks
to billy about the virus because he fears that the
virus will spread but billy dismisses him back in
zaire a white-headed capuchin monkey that's host
to the virus is captured and smuggled by a chinese
man into the country on a ship we then see a man
jimbo a worker at the animal testing laboratory
steal a monkey from the laboratory and bribes his
way out of the place to sell a monkey on the black
market on his way the next day to sell the monkey
in his car the monkey spits water into his mouth
unaware he is infected he fails to sell the monkey
to a pet store owner at the coaster california
town of cedar creek the monkey scratches the
pet store owner and he gets wounded blood injury
causing him to be infected too he realizes the
monkey is now useless he then releases the monkey
in the woods outside of the nearby community
of palisades while testing this sample of the
virus in the u.s army high technology laboratory
colonel daniel and his team discovers how fatal
the virus is it spreads rapidly by contact and
can kills within 24 hours this same virus spread
28 years ago major general donald meets general
billy they were both the masked men that had the
infected camp wiped out 28 years ago to keep this
virus as secrets donald asked billy to keep daniel
out of the case so he won't mess up the biological
weapon they have been working on for over the past
30 years the next scene shows jimbo on a flight to
boston sitting on the plane he begins to develop
the signs and symptoms of the virus at his arrival
in the airport he meets with his girlfriend and
they kiss not realizing his infected moment
right after he started acting strangely while
his girlfriend screamed for help at the same
time the pet store owner at the town cedar creek
feels so sick and collapses he is rushed into
the town's hospital where the doctor tries to
resuscitate him same time a laboratory technician
withdraws his blood for testing while running the
test he accidentally breaks the vial and the
blood sample splashes all over to his face
obviously he is also infected after this the worst
things that can happen to humanity begins robby
daniel's ex-wife and also a doctor at the
center for disease control and prevention
cdc upon hearing the case in boston in which the
doctors there can't figure it out she moves to
the town and try to get relevant information
from jimbo but unfortunately he dies she takes
a postmortem test where she discovers all
of jimbo's internal organs are liquefied
she immediately notify her ex-husband daniel
the same lab technician goes to a movie cinema
where his health state goes bad he coughs into the
air as a result virus spreads to other people he
goes outside to get water and he falls and then
hospitalized right after the whole town of cedar
creek begins to show signs and symptoms and rushed
to the town's hospital the hospital began to fill
up the disease is spreading rapidly general donald
orders general billy on the phone to quarantine
the town and impose martial law on the cedar
creek residents and also create a media blackout
to prevent the world from knowing the actual truth
about the virus to protect their selfish interest
they have the whole town filled with military
securing the perimeter of the small town of 2600
people against general billy order colonel
daniel's team are at the town's hospital
he meets with robby after he has showed where the
infected patients have been isolated then he has
called for a patient who has been admitted in the
hospital before the outbreak he has also developed
the disease apparently with no contact with an
infected daniel discovers the man contacted the
disease by airborne as a result from the roof vent
connecting the man's room to the isolated room
this makes him understands that the virus has
mutated and can now be contacted through the air
after a series of contact tracing they come to
understand an animal host that has the virus must
be carrying the antibodies to the virus so robbiy
visits the pet store and discovers a sick monkey
realizing it's just an infected monkey
not the animal host they're looking for
this monkey get infected by eating the monkey
host banana when jimbo brought it to the store
the situation of the city has gone worse
and there is disturbance among the people
some of the residents try to escape but the army
interferes and does not allow anyone to step
out the town's perimeter in order to prevent
this epidemic further general billy considers
providing an anti-serum called e1101 because he
and general donald had worked with the virus in
the past they preserved the virus for use as a
biological weapon not knowing the virus would
somehow breaks out the virus has mutated the
antiserum doesn't have an effect on the patient
daniel realizes that his superior were aware of
the virus before the outbreak he questions billy
but lied it's an experimental antiserum from a
virology lab following due to this mutated virus
that can be transmitted by air the army orders
everyone to stay indoors and tell them if they
have symptoms they should indicate by hanging a
white cloth on their front door the army comes
seeing the white cloth and brings the infected
people in for their treatment on the other side
daniel's partner major casey is experimenting
in the laboratory his suit accidentally tears
and his protection is in doubt but he does not
mention this to anyone even when robby asks him
soon while working he collapses and he's rushed
to the hospital while robby tries to inject him
she accidentally pierces herself causing her to
be infected too robby flees the scene and daniel
goes after her knowing she is infected he goes to
confront billy and then he discovers the president
has authorized general donald on operation
clean sweet tonight a plan to contain the virus
by bombing cedar creek to prevent the viruses
expansion to pandemic proportion returning back
to the hospital major salt tells daniel he gets
a call from the animal testing laboratory saying
a security let jimbo smuggled an animal out of the
facility and it came in on a ship from africa to
prevent daniel from finding a cure general donald
orders him to be arrested for carrying the virus
daniel escapes he and major salt fly a helicopter
to the ship which carried the monkey he has shown
the corpse of the chinese man who first made
contact with the host monkey he died from the
virus daniel discovers the picture of the monkey
he then goes to a media station and hijacked
during a recording he asks people to contact
him if anyone sees the monkey on the picture
a palisades resident mrs jeffries realizes that
her daughter kate has been playing with the monkey
and makes a call daniel insult arrives at the
jeffries's house they makes kate coaxes the monkey
where salt tranquilizes it when billy learns
from daniel about the monkey capture he delays
the bombing on their return flight daniel and
salt are chased by donald and another helicopter
soul fires two rockets into the trees to
deceive him thinking that they crashed
once back in cedar creek salt mixes the monkey's
antibodies to create an antiserum although casey
is dead they gave robbie the antiserum and ordered
the laboratory to make more for the whole town
donald returns to base and resumes operation
clean sweep refusing to listen to billy robbie
gets better at salt reports the plane is in
the air coming to drop the bomb daniels and
salt fly their helicopter directly into the
path of the bomber's approach to its target
daniel persuades the bombers flight crew not to
drop the bomb but because they are trained not
to listen against an order it took them a while
to realize what they are about to do and with
billy's help the bomber's crew detonate the bomb
over the water and spare the town before donald
can order another bombing billy relieves him of
command and orders his arrest at the end daniel
and robbie reconcile as cedar creek's residents
are cured thanks for watching please don't
forget to subscribe and turn on the notification
bell to get notice when a new video is uploaded